GUIDELINES FOR

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS RE

VETERINARIAN CHECK AT USEF VAULTING COMPETITIONS 

Note:  Vet Checks are currently only required at our USEF/AVA National Championships.  This document may be expanded to include any USEF Recognized Vaulting Competition, if the membership so decides.  That language is in brackets.   

USEF Rule VA 113.3 reads:  “At National Championships there will be a vet check.  The veterinarian, accompanied by at least two members of the ground jury will inspect the horses.” 

Clarification Language 

To clarify the vet check process, it is proposed that the following language be included in all premiums for USEF Vaulting Competitions:   

      “The purpose of the veterinary inspection at USEF/AVA National Championships [USEF-recognized vaulting events] is to protect and defend the best interests of the horse.  Any horse deemed to be unfit or unsound for vaulting service by the Official Veterinarian and/or Ground Jury will not pass the inspection.  Reasons for failing the inspection may include, but are not limited to:  Obvious unsoundness (uneven and/or un-level), poor physical condition, illness, wounds in the mouth, saddle galls, signs of discomfort or fatigue.”   

Protocol 

The Ground Jury is defined in USEF Rule VA113 as “the invited judges.”  These judges must be selected from the current roster of Federation Licensed Vaulting Judges. 

For USEF/AVA National Championships, the AVA Vice President of Competitions shall be responsible for locating, hiring and verifying the credentials of the Official Vet Check Veterinarian.  [At USEF Recognized Competitions, Competition Management would be the person responsible for hiring, etc.]

          o Only a licensed, practicing equine veterinarian may be hired as the Official Vet Check Veterinarian. 
          o The Official Vet Check Veterinarian must be a member of the AAEP (American Association of Equine Practitioners).
          o The Official Vet Check Veterinarian should be free of conflicts of interest, i.e., should not be the regular veterinarian for any of the horse’s entered in the competition
          o The VP Competitions [Competition Management] shall verify the Official Vet Check Veterinarian’s credentials.

 

The vet check shall consist of an inspection of each horse and a trot/walk exam.  This trot/walk exam shall be conducted on ground which is smooth, firm and level.  (Horse Inspection Procedures and Diagram attached). 

          o The Official Vet Check Veterinarian will inspect each horse for physical condition and will identify the horse by his number. 
          o Horses shall be presented in hand with a bridle and reins. 
          o The horse’s USEF/AVA number shall be attached to the right side of the bridle. 
          o The horse and handler shall be in showmanship attire:  Clean, neat, and professionally turned-out.
          o The Ground Jury will stand 10 feet off to the side of the horse during this inspection and during the trot.
          o All spectators, owners, coaches, longeurs, vaulters, etc. shall be allowed to stand a minimum of 40 feet away from the inspection track
          o The horse shall be trotted and walked, per the official diagram for the vet check.   No other exercise shall be required, i.e., no longeing. 
          o A horse that does not immediately pass this inspection will be sent to a holding area adjacent to the official vet check area.  This horse will be re-examined before the end of the Official Vet Check. 
          o The Official Vet Check Veterinarian, in conference with the Ground Jury, shall have the complete authority regarding the failure of any horse. 
          o In case of disagreement between the Official Vet Check Veterinarian and the Ground Jury regarding the pass of a horse, the Ground Jury may overrule the decision to pass, if the Ground Jury unanimously deems the horse unable to perform to the standard and/or requirements of the vaulting sport. 
          o Any horse that does not pass the Official Vet Check inspection and/or re-check, may be presented on the following day, before competition begins, only if specified in the show premium.  The same Official Vet Check Veterinarian must preside over any re-check. 

 

The criteria which shall be used for evaluating the soundness of the horses shall be the AAEP Soundness Scale:

         1. Lameness is very subtle, with no head bobbing.  Indications are a difference in the range of motion or weighting of a particular limb
         2. There is relatively slight head bobbing
         3. There is noticeable head bobbing
         4. The horse has difficulty moving
         5. The affected leg is non-weight bearing.

 
 

When using the scale to evaluate soundness, veterinarians may make use of decimals, i.e., 1.5, 2.5, etc.   
 
 
 
 
 

AVA HORSE INSPECTION PROCEDURES 

Horse Inspection

Denotes the procedure used to verify whether horses are fit to participate in an event or competition (“fit to compete”). Horses inspections are designed to promote equestrian sports, without compromising horse welfare in any way. 

Inspection Panel

It is the panel of judges and veterinarian(s) whose responsibility it is to make the decision (i.e.: pass, fail or re-inspection), but it is based on the professional opinion of the veterinarian(s). 

Horse Inspection Protocol

The horse inspections should be held not less than 24 hours prior to the start of the competition. 

   1. All horses must be presented in a bridle with their horse number visibly attached on the right side.  The handler must be dressed suitable to the show ring.  NO WRAPS OR BOOTS ARE ALLOWED!  The horses should be presented, braided and turned out suitable for the show ring.  All horses will be considered for the prestigious Osierlea Award.

      The annual Osierlea Award is presented at the USEF/AVA National Championships each year.  This award, sponsored by AVA founders Elizabeth Searle and J. Ashton Moore, is designed to encourage clubs, coaches and longeurs to present their horses in the best possible light at the horse inspection before the competition begins.

   2. The person responsible should, in principle, always present the horse for inspection.  After a visual inspection, the horse will be walked for a short distance and then trotted on a loose rein with the handler on the left side of the horse.  The veterinarian may be allowed to palpate a limb or other part of the body, but is not entitled to perform a clinical test.
   3. If a horse is unacceptably lame, it should be failed immediately.  The holding box should only be used for horses that are considered “doubtful”; to evaluate if there is an injury or condition that could affect the horse’s ability to compete safely.  The Examining Veterinarian then examines all the horses referred there. Without discussion, he then reports the results of his examination to the Inspection Panel.  The Inspection Panel then will make its final decision after having considered the Examining Veterinarian’s report.


                        Lotteries and Amusements Act 1976

 

                        Explanatory notes for the guidance of local societies 
                         

These explanatory notes summarise the main provisions of the Lotteries and Amusements Act 1976 and the Lotteries Regulations 1993 as amended and are intended to assist societies and their officers in connection with registration and conduct of lotteries. These notes should be read in conjunction with the above mentioned legislation (copies of which are available from H.M.S.O.) The fact that a society or lottery scheme is registered under the Act is not in itself evidence that the lottery is properly established or conducted.  

What is a lottery? 

This is the distribution of prizes by lot or chance where there is no degree of skill involved, and the chance of winning is secured by a payment.  If a prize is awarded for skill alone then the scheme is not a lottery.  It is a question of fact in each case and although ‘guess the weight’ or ‘the number’ may seem to require a certain amount of skill, it is open to the Courts to decide in such cases that the right answer is more a question of luck than skill. 

What is a Society? 

A ‘Society’ includes any club, institution, organisation or association of persons, by whatever name called, and any separate branch or section of such a club, institution, organisation or association. Names causing confusion with those of other organisations should be avoided. 

Lotteries and Amusements Act 1976 (as amended) 

By this Act, all lotteries are declared unlawful.  There are, however, five exceptions contained in the Act.  These are draws at fetes etc, private lotteries, society lotteries, Local Authority Lotteries and The National Lottery. 

Draws at fetes etc: This refers to lotteries that are incidental to bazaars, sales of work, fetes, dinners, dances, sporting or athletic events and other entertainments of a similar character.  Conditions are attached to these: 

    * The ticket must be sold to those people present at the time and place of the entertainment and be drawn before the end of the event;
    * The prizes must be of a limited total value (£250) and must not be cash prizes;
    * The lottery must not be the chief attraction of the entertainment;
    * Ordinary cloakroom tickets can be used.

 

Private Lotteries: are those that are restricted to persons who are members of one club or society not established just to conduct such a lottery, or private lotteries restricted to persons who all live or work inside the same premises.   

    * Where a society has a number of sections or branches, each one is regarded as a separate body.  A national group must not sell tickets to any other branch of the group even though they are part of the same national organisation.  The sale of tickets is confined to those persons only and the promoter of the lottery must be one of those persons: 
    * Tickets must not be sold through the post:
    * The lottery cannot be advertised outside the workplace or club and certain particulars must be printed on the tickets:
    * The price of the tickets must be the same, and each ticket must be bought for cash.

              

The only deductions allowed are for printing and stationery, the Act provides that the proceeds shall be devoted to the purposes of the club or to the purchase of prizes. 

Society Lotteries: This exception is designed to allow lotteries to be run by a society which can sell its tickets outside the membership of the society and attract a much greater entry.  In order to obtain the benefits of the Act, the society (an expression which includes a local branch or section of a society organised on a national or area basis) must be one which is established and conducted wholly or mainly for one or more of the following purposes: 

    * Charitable purposes;
    * Participation in or support of athletic sports or games or cultural activities;
    * Purposes which, not being described above, are neither purposes of private gain nor purposes of any commercial undertaking.

 

The expression ‘private gain’ is so defined that, for example, a social club can take advantage of this section even though the proceeds of the lottery will, ultimately, benefit the club members, so long as the proceeds are applied for one of the club’s purposes which benefits the club as a whole. 

The lottery must be promoted in Great Britain and in accordance with a scheme approved by the society and either: 

    * The total value of tickets or chances to be sold is £20, 000 or less; or
    * The society is registered with the Gaming Board for Great Britain before any tickets or chances are sold.

 

Lotteries not promoted by societies or where the value of tickets for sale in a lottery exceed £20,000 have to register with the Gaming Board of Great Britain and not their local council. 

Application for registration must be made in writing to the local authority in whose area the office or head office is situated.  Since the term ‘society’ includes a separate branch, registration by the Head Office is sufficient and indeed there is some doubt whether a branch of a society can run a lottery under the Act unless it has a separate entity or specific purposes of its own. 

A registration fee of £35.00 is payable upon registration.  Registration may be refused or cancelled by the Council if it appears to them that an offence has been committed in connection with a lottery promoted by the society.  Similarly registration may be refused or cancelled if it appears to the Council that the society is not or has ceased to be one on behalf of which lotteries may be promoted under the Act.  The society has a right to be heard by the Licensing Committee, and there are certain rights of appeal. 

A fee of £17.50 is payable on 1 January in each year whilst the society remains registered, though it may cancel the registration at any time before 31 December previous. If a renewal fee is not paid it becomes a civil debt and can be reclaimed by the Council that issued the permit. 

Tickets sold as part of a registered society lottery must be properly printed and contain the following information: 

    * The name of the society;
    * The name and address of the promoter;
    * The date of the lottery draw;
    * The price of the ticket (which must not exceed £2.00);
    * The name of the local council the society is registered with.

 
 

NO TICKETS OR CHANCES MAY BE OFFERED FOR SALE BEFORE THE SOCIETY IS REGISTERED.
Conditions in connection with lotteries
 

   1. The following conditions must be observed in connection with the promotion and conduct of the lottery:-
   2. No ticket or chance may be sold to any person under the age of 16 years.
   3. The total value of prizes which may be offered may not exceed 55% of the proceeds of the lottery, unless it can be shown that the proceeds were less than estimated.
   4. The amount of proceeds given over to expenses (excluding prizes) must not exceed the actual expenses or 35% of the proceeds, whichever is the less, unless it can be shown that the proceeds fell short of the sum estimated.
   5. The promoter of a lottery must be a member of the society authorised in writing by the governing body of the society to promote a lottery.
   6. To prevent confusion, no two lotteries should have the same date; however, where a society holds two lotteries on the same date they must be distinguished by having different serial numbers on the tickets.
   7. Every ticket must specify the name of the society, the name and address of the promoter and the date of the lottery. Where reference is made in any ticket to a person who for reward, is, or has been, acting or assisting in the promoting of a lottery, the size of the lettering must not exceed the size of the smallest lettering used to specify the name of the society.
   8. Every ticket must specify that the society is registered with the Council and give the registration number.
   9. No ticket may be sold to any person in any street (except from a kiosk or shop having no space to accommodate customers).
  10. No ticket may be sold from a licensed betting office.
  11. No ticket or chance may be sold for more than £2, and the price of every ticket must be the same and printed on the ticket.
  12. No prize may be offered on such terms that the winning of a prize depends on the purchase of more than one ticket or chance, unless the total price of the chances required to win a prize does not exceed £2.
  13. No person may participate in a lottery except after paying the full price of a ticket or chance, and no money received for or on account of a ticket or chance may be returned.
  14. No money other than the price of a ticket or chance may be accepted as a condition of a person's participation in a lottery.
  15. The whole proceeds after deducting legitimate expenses or money allocated to prizes, must be allocated to the purposes of the society.
  16. No person supplying lottery tickets may supply them in such a manner, or so marked, as to enable a winning ticket to be identified before it is sold. This applies to tickets (commonly known as 'instant lottery' tickets) which are designed so as to conceal words, figures symbols etc. which if revealed would indicate whether a ticket is a winning ticket or not.
  17. Prizes may be donated to a lottery at a reduced cost or free, but the value of any such prizes may not exceed £25,000.
  18. A society must approve a scheme for the promotion of any lottery and any scheme or modification to it must comply with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Lotteries Regulation 1993.

Returns 

The promoter of a lottery shall send to the local authority not later than the end of the third month after the date of the lottery a return certified by two other members of the society (who must be of full age and appointed in writing by the governing body of the society) which shows: -  

(a) The whole proceeds of the lottery.

(b) The sums appropriated out of those proceeds for expenses.

(c) The sums appropriated out of those proceeds for prizes.  

Please note:  

The proportion of the proceeds of any of the lotteries under this Scheme that may be appropriated for the provision of prizes must not exceed 55 per cent of the whole proceeds of a lottery. This Scheme requires that such proportion shall not be exceeded except in the following special circumstances: -  

      (i) that the proceeds of the lottery fall short of the sum reasonably estimated; and

            (ii) that the appropriation is made in order to fulfill an unconditional undertaking as to prizes given in connection with the sale of the relevant tickets or chances; and 

            (iii) that the total amount appropriated in respect of prizes does not exceed the amount, which could have been appropriated out of the proceeds of the lottery if the proceeds had amounted to the sum reasonably estimated.  

(d) The particular purpose or purposes to which the proceeds of the lottery were applied and the amounts allocated to each of those purposes.  

(e) The date of the lottery.  

The return will be held by the local authority for inspection free of charge by any member of the public during office hours for a period of at least 18 months.  

Failure to send a return or knowingly to give or certify false information in a return is an offence.  

When your application to register has been approved, the local authority will provide you with a supply of their return forms. (Available online) It is important, bearing in mind the preceding paragraph, that these are completed promptly and correctly within three months.  

A scheme shall have effect for a period not exceeding three years. In the case of a scheme registered with the Gaming Board, the Board has no authority  to amend the scheme. The only way of changing the contents of a scheme will be by applying to register a new scheme with the Board. In other cases, a society wishing to amend its scheme, or to introduce a new one, may do so but must submit the new scheme to the local authority with its next return.  

Returns for lotteries registered with the Gaming Board should not be sent to the local authority.
Offences and Penalties

Any breeches of the conditions of a society's registration constitutes an offence for which the promoter (unless the contravention took place with or without his or her knowledge) and any person who is a party to any breech of conditions will be liable to prosecution, and if found guilty on a summary conviction may be subject to a fine not exceeding £5,000, or if convicted on indictment, to a term of imprisonment not exceeding two years or a fine or both.

Anybody found guilty of failing to complete return forms and send them to the Council within three months of the date of a lottery, or falsifying a return form, may be subject to a fine not exceeding £5,000 if convicted on a summary offence or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding two years or a fine or both if convicted on indictment. 

Notes for

Dark Energy Survey (DES) DECam Project

Working Group Meeting (WGM)

Friday, October 20, 2006

10:00 – 12:00 Noon in the Snake Pit 

Attending:  Ed Temple, John Peoples, Douglas Tucker, Bob Tschirhart, Paul Philp, Jim Annis, Greg Bock, Wyatt Merritt, Brenna Flaugher, Dean Hoffer, Chris Smith (by phone), Alistair Walker (by phone), Joe Mohr (by phone) 

   1. Discussion on the preparation of a DES Proposal to DOE/NSF for a joint review of DES’s scientific merit and technical feasibility.
         1. Email from Wayne Van Citters and Robin Staffin dated October 18, 2006 [John/All]

See the following handouts:

    * Email from Wayne Van Citters and Robin Staffin at http://www.fnal.gov/directorate/OPMO/Projects/DES/WGM/2006/10_20/Van_Citters_and_Robin_Staffin_email_18_Oct_06.pdf
    * Some Thoughts on the 10-18-2006 Message from Van Citters by John Peoples at http://www.fnal.gov/directorate/OPMO/Projects/DES/WGM/2006/10_20/JohnPeoples-SomethoughtsonVanCittersmessage.pdf

The E-mail from Van Citters and Staffin requests that “an official proposal that describes the overall experiment end-to-end” …  “be submitted to DOE and NSF by mid-December in the ‘NSF-style’ proposal format.”  It was noted use of an “NSF-style” format does not necessarily mean use of the Fastlane NSF proposal submission system (https://www.fastlane.nsf.gov/); in fact, submission of the proposal to both NSF and DOE actually precludes use of Fastlane.

It was noted that this is a request for an official proposal but not for an official request for funds.  The requested proposal would include a description of the expected set of requests for funds from what we are calling the “Four Boxes”:

    * DECam
    * DES-DM
    * NOAO-CTIO (http://www.ctio.noao.edu)
    * NOAO-DPP (Data Products Program; http://www.noao.edu/dpp/)

The requested proposal would be a document that describes all the funding proposals we plan to submit, which will go through normal channels (the channels being DOE for DECam, NSF for DES-DM, etc.).

DOE and NSF plan to jointly review its scientific merit and technical feasibility.

Agency contacts are Nigel Sharp (NSF) and Kathy Turner (DOE). 

Each of the Four Boxes will need to write something for this proposal; e.g.:

    * DECam – a stripped down version of the DECam CD-1/CD-2 documentation
    * DES-DM – material from Joe’s NSF proposal
    * NOAO-CTIO – perhaps material from NOAO’s annual program plan?
    * NOAO-DPP – perhaps material from NOAO’s annual program plan?

The proposal should include information on the science case and how it will relate to and satisfy the recommendations put forth in the recent DETF report.  DES should review the DETF report and determine whether we need to revise material already submitted.  Input is being solicited from Josh Frieman, Gary Bernstein, Bhuvnesh Jain, and possibly Rocky Kolb.

The letter did not explicitly state to whom this proposal should be sent.  One suggestion is to send it directly to Wayne Van Citters and Robin Staffin themselves.

It was suggested that documentation on DECam operations should be a joint effort by Brenna and Alistair.

It was noted that both DES and the community will use NOAO-DPP to transfer data from La Serena to a portal at NCSA.

Joe will develop a community needs document for access to the NCSA portal.

NCSA/UIUC is developing a complete Data Management (DM) pipeline and will help NOAO develop a community needs pipeline.

Chris Smith and Joe Mohr should prepare separate documents to show how the NOAO and NCSA/UIUC efforts will come together.

Operating costs from NOAO described accurately.

Brenna and Alistair should document the costs from DECam delivery into operations.  There are still a number of things to be done at CTIO before DECam shows up, including installing a clean room at CTIO and performing telescope upgrades on the Blanco 4m.  There should be a chapter or separate document describing the steps, technical aspects, costs, etc., from DECam parts to DECam operations.

We are unsure what size the final document should be.  The Heads of the Four Boxes should meet with Kathy and Nigel to see what is needed.  The E-mail says what we submit will be reviewed.  This implies a big document.  The E-mail also mentions that a page exception may be granted to this proposal.  The cost schedules and workplans should be at roughly the same level of detail as for the DECam project.  One suggestion is to shoot for 150 pages, but not 300 pages.   

         2. Mont’s thoughts on how to proceed using information already developed and have to develop. [Ed]

See handout at http://www.fnal.gov/directorate/OPMO/Projects/DES/WGM/2006/10_20/DiscussionRecordMontgomeryTemple.pdf 

In the Van Citters/Staffin E-mail, an end-to-end description of the overall experiment is requested.  By “end-to-end,” Brenna gets the impression from Kathy that the starting point (the first “end”) is roughly January 2007, or about the time when cost accounting switches from generic R&D to project-specific R&D.

In the E-mail, it is stated that the proposal should include “expected contributions from NOAO/CTIO operations, NOAO/DPP, and any other laboratory contributions, including programmatic deliverables and estimated equivalent cost.”  It was suggested that programmatic deliverables include the science pipelines and possibly publications (e.g., for SDSS, technical publications were considered programmatic deliverables).  The 525 nights of observing time are a deliverable from NOAO.  It was asked at the meeting whether NCSA costs in support of non-DES DECam operations would be included here.

Mont had a discussion with Aesook Byon of DOE regarding this E-mail.  It is reported that Aesook said that the joint DOE/NSF proposal and CD-1 are separate items (therefore, it is necessary to continue work on the DECam CD-1, Joe’s NSF proposal, etc.)  Mont suggests that the CDR can likely provide useful material for the joint proposal, perhaps for supplemental material to be placed in the appendices.  Aesook noted that the agencies want to be assured that DES meets DETF Stage 3 requirements and the requirements in the community needs document. It was noted in the meeting that DES gains much of its legitimacy through its success in winning the NOAO Announcement of Opportunity.

Mont notes that John + the 3 Directors (Mont, Thom, and Jeremy) were the only addressees in the “To:” field of the E-mail; this indicates that the agencies are starting to understand what role John plays in the DES organizational structure.

Mont wants to assure that progress on the DECam Project continues while the joint proposal is being prepared, and suggests splitting off smaller working group meetings that focus only on DECam.  Brenna and John agree, and these will provisionally be held on alternate Fridays.

Mont suggests that Douglas and/or Wyatt should convert John’s Oct. 3 presentation to the 3 Directors – see http://www.fnal.gov/directorate/OPMO/Projects/DES/WGM/2006/10_20/DESDirector's_3-Oct-06_presentation.ppt

– into prose that would be suitable as an introduction to the joint proposal.  John forcefully demurs.

Mont suggests that a “Content List” be prepared, which should be a “table of contents”-like list of  responses to each of the six bullets from the Van Citters/Staffin E-mail.  This list would be provided to Nigel and Kathy requesting their comments and feedback.  John suggests that the list then be provided to the 3 Directors for comment and feedback.  It is felt that a stab can already be taken at about 80% of the material suggested in the six bullet points in the E-mail.  

   2. Status of submission of CD-1 documentation and preparations for CD-2/3a. [Brenna]

[Editorial Note:  this section also includes many items concerning the DOE/NSF joint proposal.]

Brenna reports that the final cost and schedule range for CD-1, as well as the milestones, have been included in the PEP, but she still needs to get Kathy to sign off on this.

ACTION ITEM [Brenna] – Get Kathy to sign off on final cost and schedule range for CD-1 and on the milestones in the PEP.

Brenna states that we want the joint DOE/NSF proposal to be completely consistent with the CD-1 documents.

Brenna is scheduled to have a phone meeting with Kathy on Tuesday; the agenda is CD-1. 

Who should be included in these phone meetings with Nigel?  The Van Citters/Staffin E-mail was sent to the 3 Directors, but the 3 Directors will not be writing the documentation.  It was decided that the first meeting with Nigel should not include the 3 Directors, since it is very difficult to schedule meetings at which all three Directors can attend together.  Perhaps it is better to distribute the minutes from these meetings to the 3 Directors, instead. 

Brenna states that her first task is the CD-1 meeting with Kathy, and that her second task is to set up a meeting among the Heads of the Four Boxes (Brenna, Joe, Alistair, and Chris Smith).  The Heads of the Four Boxes should each start preparing for their Box a positive outline responding to items in the Van Citters/Staffin E-mail (plus any requests for clarification regarding any of these items).  Initial outlines and requests for clarification (if any) should be sent to John and the other Heads by Monday.  John will compile this information for Brenna before her phone meeting with Kathy.

ACTION ITEM [Brenna, Joe, Alistair, Chris Smith] – Prepare initial outlines relevant to your Box responding to the items in the Van Citters/Staffin E-mail and send to John by Monday; include requests for clarification (if any) regarding these items.

ACTION ITEM [John] -- Compile outlines and any requests for clarification from the Heads of the Four Boxes for Brenna before her meeting with Kathy on Tuesday.

ACTION ITEM [John] – Schedule teleconference with Kathy and Nigel for the week of October 31-November 3 to discuss joint proposal. 

   3. Additional

 

ACTION ITEM [Dean] – Add a milestone to the DES-DECam Timeline for the submittal of the DOE/NSF proposal. 

Next DECam splinter group meeting:  October 27

Next DES WGM meeting:  November 3
